In the last lecture, we learned about benefits of DevOps.
Is everything hunky dory with DevOps?
No.
There are challenges of DevOps.
You might be tested on this in your interview because unless you work on a real world DevOps project,
you will not be aware of these challenges.
All right.
Let's dive deeper.
The biggest challenge of DevOps is continuously adapting to changing landscape.
There are new tools coming out almost every month and there are ever changing processes and technologies.
If I open up the NCF landscape, the number of tools there are mind boggling.
It is impossible to master all of this.
And if I focus specifically on continuous integration and delivery, there are around 50 tools just
in this category.
And remember, this is just CNCF Cloud Native.
If you go beyond that, the number of DevOps tools available in the market is over 100.
Going back to the processes and technologies.
If you adopted DevOps a few years back, just learning cloud formation and Jenkins was sufficient,
you could have deployed any kind of workload using those too.
But now in recent times, Multicloud is gaining popularity, so you have to learn TerraForm.
In addition to cloud formation in Kubernetes, Gitops is getting popular.
So now just learning Jenkins is not enough.
You need to understand one of the Gitops tools along with Jenkins.
The second challenge of DevOps is developers unwilling to provide support.
One of the cultural change with DevOps is now the developer and operations are in the same team and
in some cases they are the same person.
And sometimes developers just want to do code.
They are not interested in doing support.
And another challenge of DevOps is it takes months or years to ramp up.
In certain cases, your organization will already have an established deployment mixed with a lot of
manual checking and processes.
So for those organizations, you need to have a strategy such as how to break apart small parts into
DevOps paths and then the migrating the other projects and then modernizing to modern DevOps tool,
etc. It could take a long time and whenever it comes to adopting something new, be DevOps or cloud,
there are always three main factor people process and technology.
So generally process and technology is easier because they are methodical.
So sometimes you might face resistance from your organization to change to DevOps because it will change
the job functionalities of certain folks.
So whenever you talk about challenges, especially in interviews, it is important to note how will
you solve them?
So how will you solve continuously adapting to changing landscape?
So your company needs to establish standard toolsets.
You will have a cloud center of excellence or DevOps Center of excellence who will go and review audit
all these different DevOps tools.
And based on your security posture and the nature of the project, they will standardize certain sets
of tools so that the development teams don't need to waste time and evaluate all these tools themselves.
They will also provide templates with best practices built in.
For example, if you need to deploy something to Kubernetes so they will have certain pipelines that
is already codified using Jenkins and Argus Seed for an example, with all the security checkpoints
built in.
So if other teams need to adopt it, they can simply come copy the template and then build on top of
it rather than starting from scratch.
For developers unwilling to provide support, you need to implement some sort of rotation and give incentives
for the long ramp up time.
Utilize Vendor Training Workshop.
For example, if your organization is adopting a W.
S a W.
S runs, immersion days, workshops, presentations, you get invited to all these conferences that
train your workforce and help you adopt DevOps.
And the last part, resistance to change.
This is a hard problem, so you need to go through cultural training to do that.
If you are going for a lead position or a higher management position, look up this cultural training
before your interviews.
All right.
Now that we understand what is DevOps challenges and benefits, let's look into what is CI and what
is CDD in the next lecture.